[MUSIC]
My name is Ellen and I am a security
engineering manager at Google focused
in on how Google uses the cloud.
Cybersecurity wasn't a field when
I got started in technology,
something I came to later.
I got started in technology when I
was working retail at a poster store.
And we needed to build a website and my
feet hurt and I really needed to sit down.
And so I asked friends to
teach me how to do HTML so
I could sit down while working and
I could let my blisters have a rest.
While I was at the poster store, one of
our customers worked at a start up and
used to get employee photos framed and
they asked them for
feedback on my website, and
they ended up giving me an internship.
One of the specialties that I
ended up having was API design or
designing the interface by which
a developer communicates with the machine.
As part of that, I got into a job where
I was designing a miniature version of
an operating system for
security technology and
started learning security from there.
Most of the people I know from cyber
security, especially in the early days,
do not have a degree at all.
Or if they do, they have a degree like I
do in something like philosophy or poetry.
Almost everyone learned on
their own by experimenting,
by talking to people, by reading.
And so I would say no technical
background is required.
And in fact, having a background where
you're used to being out in the real world
can sometimes make cybersecurity
make more sense and
help you make more balanced choices.
In almost all areas, there is
a security community that you can find.
Figure out where they are, look for local
conferences, start talking to people.
It's a lot more fun to learn
that way than it is in a vacuum.
I've found that most people if you come to
them and say, hey, you're really good at
this thing, would you mind if I bought you
a coffee and you showed me how to do it?
That they'll always pretty much say yes.
The advice I give to people who don't have
technical backgrounds, the first one is,
I wouldn't be afraid of the technology.
It can seem like only somebody with
a computer science degree could ever
understand things, but
these concepts,
these technologies
are understandable by anyone.
And so never let the fact that you might
not have a technical background get
in the way, just pick an area that
interests you and start diving in.
And as long as you're curious, and as
long as you find it interesting, you'll,
you'll learn the technology.